The Human Bionic Eye

The Human Eye
The human eye functions much like a camera. Acting as the camera lens is the cornea, the clear front surface of the eye, where light is primarily focused. Light then travels through the iris, the visibly colour circle of the eye, which automatically adjusts its size in order to control the amount of light that reaches the back of the eye. The crystalline lens further focuses the light, using a process called ‘accommodation’ to allow the eye to automatically focus on near and approaching the objects.
Behind this lens lie areas of the eye utilised by visual prosthesis, and so the main focus of our report. Having passed through the cornea, iris, and crystalline lens, the light then reaches the retina. The retina is the light-sensitive inner lining of the very back of the eye, and it converts optical images into electronic signals. Within the retina are specialised cells that respond to light called photoreceptors, which consist of two types: rods and cones. Rods, the more numerous type, deal with light and dark changes, shape, and movement, while cones are used for colour vision and are better suited for detecting fine details. The fovea is the central region of the retina. It contains only cones and provides the clearest vision, therefore your vision is best when light falls on the fovea. Within the innermost layer of the retina are the retinal ganglion cells: they integrate information received from photoreceptors via bipolar cells, and project into the brain. The optic nerve, made up of retinal ganglion axons and glial cells, transmits these signals to the visual cortex, the section of the brain that controls our sense of sight.


Current Solutions

Retinal Prosthesis
While the development of the field of visual prosthesis began with cortical prosthetic devices, retinal prosthesis have become by far the most advance device. This is due to the wealth of knowledge in regards to the receptive properties of the retina, and the predictive nature of the production of perception of light in the retina by electrical stimulation. Furthermore, the implantation and maintenance of retinal prosthesis is much easier than that of cortical prosthesis due to its surgical access. 
However, the use of retinal prosthesis is restricted to patients whose inner retina remains intact, as they utilise and rely on the available ganglions and visual pathways, with their primary role being to impersonate lost photoreceptors and their properties i.e. the stimulation of said ganglions and bipolar cells.
Retinal prosthesis can be categorised into epiretinal, secured to the surface of the retina via a tack, and subretinal, fixed between the RPE layer and the neurosensory retinal.  Both types work in the same way; they both alter the membrane potential of adjacent retinal neurons by producing small localized currents. The method used to generate the energy required, however, can differ between devices- this energy can be accumulated either directly from incident light acting on photovoltaic or photoelectric cells, or by using an external battery such as a rechargeable battery, or both methods together. When transforming an image into an electrical stimulus intrinsically, with the use of a photoelectric cell, the current may be amplified by an external power source in order to create a larger stimulus, for example.
There are currently two approved retinal prosthetic devices, one epiretinal and one subretinal, both of which have been successfully clinically tested and will now be discussed.

Argus II
The Argus® II, produced by Second Sight Medical Products in California, USA, is an epiretinal implant, consisting of both external and internal parts. The device makes use of an external video camera, mounted on a pair of glasses, in order to capture images. These images are then sent to a portable computer, known as the Visual Processing Unit, and processed in real-time in order to convert the video feed into electrical field patterns to be used to activate electrodes implanted on the retina in order to stimulate the residual neurons. These signals are passed from the VPU to an external coil built into the side arm of the glasses, used for power induction and wirelessly relaying information relay to an internal coil implanted on the surface of the globe, which converts the received RF back into electric signals. This data is sent to an Application-Specific-Internal-Circuit, implanted in a hermetic casing with the internal coil, and an appropriate electrical pulse is generated in order to stimulate a 60-microelectrode array implanted intra-ocularly. The two are connected through the sclera via a cable, and the array is able to cover a 20 degree field of vision.
Implantation and removal of the Argus II is relatively straightforward, requiring only ~2-3 hours of surgery and using common vitreoretinal surgical techniques, without any serious adverse effects. 
Clinically the device was a relative success. Of 28 patients tested, all reported reliable perception of phosphenes, and showed improvements in orientation and mobility functions. Of these 28, 14 could identify direction of motion. In a most recent test, four subjects were able to recognise letters and read short words. Of these trials, no permanent or serious adverse effects were observed, with the most common side effect of the retinal prosthesis being conjunctival erosion, at 10%. All of these cases of erosion were successfully treated.
CE, NGA, NHS

Alpha-IMS
The alpha-IMS, produced by Retinal Implant AG in Reutlingen, Germany, is a subretinal implant. While the Argus II uses an external video camera, the alpha-IMS utilizes the subject’s own eye to capture images. It uses a photovoltaic Micro-Photodiode Array placed subretinally, which consists of 1500 elements, each connected to an independent titanium nitride microelectrode via an amlplifier. The MPDA receives the incident light and visual images focused onto the retina and converts electromagnetic light waves into light intensity-dependent photocurrents. An internal induction coil, inserted subdermally, and an external coil generate electrical energy, which in turn is used to amplify the currents generated by the MPDA, then fed into microelectrodes to directly stimulate their corresponding retinal neurons.  A silicone cable connects the MPDA to the internal coil. This set up results in an 11 by 11 degree visual field.
The silicone cable and its extensively intraocular path, connecting the MPDA to the internal coil by tunnelling underneath the temporalis muscle, results in a more complex surgery than the Argus II. A multi-disciplinary surgical team is required, including vitreoretinal and oculoplastic surgeons. The entire procedure takes approximately 6-7 hours, and surgical removal is possible without any serious adverse effects.
10 patients were implanted with the second generation device and followed up for 3-9 months. Three patients were able to recognise individual letters spontaneously when presented under high contrast conditions. However, as can be expected from such a delicate procedure, two patients suffered from complications. One patient developed a post-operative subretinal bleed, which was successfully. The other, more serious complication, left a patient with no perception of light when the tip of the implant touched the optic nerve and caused nerve damage. 
CE, Future.

IRIS and Epi-Ret 3
???


Cortical Prosthesis

The very first forays into the world of visual prosthesis were made as a consequence of the First World War, when it was demonstrated that artificial stimulation of the visual cortex could elicit stable phosphenes in soldiers with occipital bullet wounds.  More History? 
While the primary visual cortex is a much harder area to operate on when compared to the retina, with approximately 67% buried inside the calcarine fissure, it can have some benefits when used as a stimulation site. Its large surface area allows for the implantation of a greater number of electrodes than can be used in retinal implants, offering the potential of a higher-resolution visual experience. When compared to the retinal prosthetic procedure of implanting micro arrays beneath the retina, the procedure of implanting small occipital cortical electrode array is relatively simple.
Most importantly, direct cortical stimulation can theoretically be used to restore vision in a vast variety of blind patients, including those suffering from glaucoma, trauma-related blindness, and other retinal or optic nerve related diseases. It does not depend on the preservation of the inner eye. This means that cortical visual prosthesis carry an enormous amount of potential, lending to the funding of research in the area.

Surface Stimulation
The first genuine attempt in the field to produce a function cortical prosthesis was made 1968 by Brindley and Lewin, who fashioned an implant consisting of an array of 80 electrodes, moulded to the recipient’s occipital cortex, and tethered to an implanted set of radio receivers that contained the basic circuitry to wirelessly stimulate each individual electrode. The patient was able to perceive phosphenes when stimulated, but the system was ultimately of no use. Nonetheless research in surface stimulation was invaluable in the progression of cortical prostheses, with Brindley deducing the 50 well placed phosphenes would allow a recipient to recognise letters, and Dobelle’s 2000 system allowing for limited object recognition and mobility with only 21 phosphenes.

ICMS
In order to avoid the use of large seizure-inducing currents, a different form of cortical prosthesis was studied: intracortical microstimulation, or ICMS. This was done through the use of minute penetrating electrodes, to stimulate within the cortex rather than at the surface. The detection of ICMS can take place at much lower current levels. Bak et all (1990) trialled ICMS on sighted volunteers, and found that three were able to perceive phosphenes at 100 times lower than those required by surface stimulation. When testing ICMS on a chronically blind patient in 1996, Bak found that the patient- unable to perceive from surface stimulation- was able to perceive phosphenes from ICMS in the same manner as the sighted volunteers.


Alternative Solutions

Optic Nerve Prosthesis
For those patients with functional retinal ganglion cells and an intact optic nerve, an alternative site for electrical stimulation is the optic nerve itself. This involves the implantation of a non-penetrating cuff electrode around the optic nerve, and when tested by Veraart (1998) was able to induce phosphenes at safe stimulation currents. Eventually, recipients could recognise and orient complex shapes, and perform object localization3.
However, while phosphenes could be elicited, they were irregularly distributed and constituted a very narrow visual field. Veraart’s group continue to improve and test their device, and currently no optic nerve prosthesis has been deemed practically viable.

Evaluation
???


Challenges

Retinal
As previously mentioned, the use of a retinal prosthesis depends on the functional state of the inner retina and optic nerve. With blindness caused by glaucoma and trauma, the retina or optic nerve may be completely destroyed- in these cases, retinal prosthesis is not applicable, whether epiretinal or subretinal. Therefore, while the most advanced, it is limited in which patients it can help.
There are also limitations where retinal prosthesis can be applied. Devices such as the Argus II which use an external camera to capture visual images capture these images indepently of the eye position. As the localisation of objects depends on both the retinoptic position and the position of the object relative to the eye, this theoretically means the hand-eye co-ordination of an Argus II recipient may be significantly less than that of a normally sighted person. However, clinical trials of the Argus II show that recipients improve in object localisation and mobility regardless.
Furthermore, with external image capture, the perceived image sent by the camera fades within seconds. To continue ‘seeing’ an image, the patient must shake their head in order to refresh the image captured, in turn eliciting more phosphenes with each movement. With intrinsic image-capturing systems such as the alpha-IMS, the constant natural micro-saccades of the patient’s eye serves to constantly refresh the visual stimuli without the conscious need to shake their head.
However, intrinsic image-capturing systems may not be as effective as those using external capture, as devices such as the alpha-IMS depend on the integrity of the residual intrinsic retinal network for image processing, which may be compromised due to neural remodelling. External image capturing bypasses this completely.

Cortical
While the use of surface cortical stimulation has been proven to elicit phosphenes, the large amounts of current needed to do so carries the great risk of inducing seizures in the patients. This is a problem common to most, if not all, surface implants, and limits the development of these devices. 
ICMS was developed as an alternative to surface due to this, as ICMS is capable of eliciting phosphenes with a much lower current. However, the use of penetrating micro-electrodes in the visual cortex carries the risk of damaging the electrodes and neuronal tissue when electrically stimulated.
While the development of Cortical Prosthesis is making strides, they remain experimental. There are currently no devices deemed practically viable and many limitations in the field that must be addressed with further research, including surgical, biological, and psychophysiological issues. The key obstacle to developing a successful cortical prosthesis, is the lack of longevity of a device. There has been an observed deterioration of the interface between electrodes and bran tissue. Some electrodes may simply cease to function after implantation, or gradually over a period of months. There is confirmed neuronal degeneration seen following electrical stimulation of the cortex, beginning as shrunken neurons and cell damage, and leading to cell death. However, the specific reasons behind this degeneration is poorly understood, although it may be that constant electrical stimulation causes neuronal hyperactivity and exhaustion. The cortical tissue response to passive electrode insertion and chronic presence has been examined, and reveals encapsulation of the electrodes, and chronic inflammation with localized neurodegeneration. There is also the further risk of micro-injury due to a stiffness mismatch between electrodes and cortical tissue. It is clear that there is a threshold below which implant functionality deteriorates to the point that neither software nor behavioural changes can compensate. Therefore cortical prosthesis are only viable until this interface breaks down.

Testing
Often, the testing that takes place during visual prosthetic trials can pose a challenge.
Retinal prosthesis have advanced to such a stage that there is a large variety of tests that can take place in order to quantify the success of the prosthesis. Recipients of both the alpha-IMS and Argus II prosthesis undergo many kinds of visual acuity tests, including Basic Assessment of Light and Motion (BALM), Basic Grating Acuity (BaGA), and Activities of Daily Living (ADL). This last assessment, ADL, has proven to be popular with patients and is described as the most rewarding benefit of the retinal implants.
Using these tests and applying them to cortical prosthesis patients is difficult because of the very nature of cortical implants when compared to retinal. With surface cortical stimulation, for example, the cortical magnification factor allows for a large amount of phosphenes in the central visual field, but they are limited to this area. This results in a high visual acuity, but a small visual field. The early Brindley (1974) and Dobelle (1976) implant recipients were assessed in their ability to read Braille characters and conventional letters, but the limited amount of phosphenes currently produced by cortical prosthesis in turn limits the visual capabilities of these patients. 
Even before this stage of testing, is the post-operation process of building a visuotopic map that links cortical electrodes to phosphenes in visual space. This means that the stimulation parameters of each individual electrode must be established, and because arrangement of the visual cortex differs from person to person, this process must be repeated for each and every recipient. This arduous process will be a hindrance to mass distribution unless an automated system is developed.


The Future of Visual Prosthesis

Retinal Prosthesis
As the development of retinal prosthesis has come a long way in terms of bio-stability and safety, the next step in this area is to improve the quality of vision1 in a number of ways. The first is to improve the visual acuity, or level of detail of image processing, by focusing on the specific focal activation of retinal ganglion cells. Next is the improvement of visual field; the most advanced retinal prosthesis, Argus II and alpha-IMS, have visual fields of 20x20 and 11x11 degrees respectively, while the developing system IRIS utilises a full 40x40. The key to this is to increase the area of retina that can be safely stimulated. Lastly, understanding of intra-retinal visual processing circuitry, such as the Argus’ ASIC, must be improved. The goal here would be to eventually formulate an accurate encoding system to convert the high quality images into neurologically meaningful signals for our visual cortex to interpret.
Regarding devices, both IRIS the Epi-Ret 3 are close to receiving their CE certifications. BionicVision Australia are also developing a suprachoroidal retinal implant, wherein the implants would be located between the sclera and the choroid. In the popular press, the group recently reported on the first human implantation of a 24-electrode prototype device (Bionic Vision Australia, 2012), with development and testing of improved devices ongoing (Villalobos et al., 2013).

Optic Nerve
Veraart's group are continuing testing of their device (Brelen et al., 2010), and have since been joined by two others developing optic nerve prostheses using electrodes stimulating either the optic nerve or the optic disk (Lu et al., 2013; Sakaguchi et al., 2009; Wu et al., 2010).

Cortical Prosthesis
There are currently multiple groups working towards developing a clinically viable cortical vision prosthesis. One is the Monash Vision Group, based in Melbourne, whose ICMS prosthesis has been named the Gennaris bionic vision system, or simply ‘Gennaris’.  This system comprises of an external camera mounted on glasses, with high-resolution images fed to a VPU sat on a belt at the patient’s waist, which applies a number of signal processing techniques to extract useful information and convert those images into electrical waveform patterns that are sent to a receiving/transmitting antenna situated at the back of the patient’s head.  This antenna then transmits the signals and power to wireless ceramic tiles that are implanted into the visual cortex. The tiles are small, 9 by 9 mm, and each houses about 43 microelectrodes that penetrate the surface of the brain. Each electrode is capable of generating phosphenes, thus creating patterns of light in the patient’s visual field. MVG researchers are able to control the electrodes for different patterns of electrical stimulation. This variable stimulation pattern may sharpen the image-age quality. The Gennaris system is still in preclinical studies, and the MVG is planning to go to human trials in 2017.
Second Sight, the maker of the Argus II, has also developed a cortical visual prosthesis named Orion I, by implementing relatively minor modifications to the Argus II technology. The Orion I can be implanted directly on the surface of the brain, in the visual cortex. Preclinical testing is ongoing, and the company has reported plans to go to human trials in 2017.


A Novel Solution


Conclusion


References
